The Joe Rogan experience.
So first of all, man, congratulations. You're the first guy to beat the system.
You're the first guy to get over by the system,
go public with it and then get your money. I've never heard it happened before.
I don't think it's ever happened before.
Bro, bro. I still can't wrap my mind around it,
but I do have to shout out, uh, Chris McCarthy over at CBS Viacom,
that guy, you know, when we were working this out,
his approach was someone who was actually trying to resolve something,
came through. It was amazing, man.
Amazing. It's a, it's a happy ending because usually those artists gripes,
they never get resolved,
not not to where the artist feels comfortable or happy with it.
They always feel bitter and angry.
They got over and someone else is a producer and they make millions of dollars
off of your work and they continue to sell it and make money off of it. And.
Well, I can say, I could say with a, with a high degree of honesty,
not to say I was never angry about it,
but I don't think I was ever like bitter by this point in my life.
I wasn't.
You would joke about it. You were angry about it,
but not to the point where it with your head, but you would joke about it.
Well, I mean, you know, you know,
the bottom line is no matter what happens to you, you got to keep going.
You gotta keep going. And, and bitterness is quite cumbersome. It's bad for you.
Right? So, you know,
jokes is a way of shaking that off or processing something with the alchemy of
levity.
Yeah. Holding grudges, bitterness. very bad for you. It doesn't ever help.
No. And now we're getting on in age, you know what I mean? We were younger.
It's just find a whole aggression. You didn't realize, you know.
I didn't realize it was with you. What does that expression that it's about? Oh,
it's about jealousy. The jealousy is the only poison that,
that affects the container. That's holding it.
Right. That's exactly right. But bitterness, the same thing. It's not good.
Yeah. It's just not good for you. You gotta be able to let go.
Yeah. I mean.
But in your case you made a ploy. Like you, you,
you said what happened, how you felt about it. And they were like, he's right.
I think, yeah. It's giving the money. It wasn't, it wasn't a court of law.
I don't believe I would have gotten anything in a court of law.
I think in a court of public opinion.
That was a good time for me to say my piece.
And through the years it wasn't something that I would Hart,
but I'm when I did the interviews and stuff,
people would always ask me about it.
But it was something that I was actually reluctant to talk about. It was, yeah.
Well,
it's hard for other people to relate to this idea that you want more money.
You know, you talking about regular people and you're saying this thing,
even though it is yours, monies.
Money is if you look at life, anything in life,
through the framework of money, you'll miss most of the picture. Yeah.
And you know, in business,
especially at this stage in our careers,
you realize through the years people playing sentence, you know what I mean?
That they're, if they incentivize a certain way,
that's the way they're going to behave. So,
so what they want is never really surprising how
they get there is where all the surprises are.
So I feel like I can forgive somebody for playing an incentive.
It's disappointing,
but what was so remarkable when I walked away from the show, right?
Is that, uh, it was against incentive.
So people couldn't understand it at the time, it was so much money.
How could you do that? And blah, blah, blah. But you know,
if I had taken that money and finished the show and would have got the money,
but I might never have been the same.
I think it was one of the most gangster moves in the history of entertainment.
And it made you a legend. And the fact that you then started doing shows,
like I heard, like Dave's doing a show in the park in Seattle.
It's kind of like a box. He pulls out of speaker.
That was important. Yeah. Because,
but because in that sense it was freeing. Yeah.
Something about, you know,
I was geared a certain way growing up cause I wanted to make it in show business
and, and, and boy, that fell all up all the way apart.
And as far as I knew my career was over, sweetie, go from there. Yeah.
Well your career wasn't over,
you just decided you were going to just sorta label.
Back for awhile in hindsight. Yeah. But when it was happening,
you really felt like it was over. I never seen these things before.
I didn't see anyone else do this and get back up. I didn't see. Uh, you know,
and, and the drum beat is he's crazy smokes.
Crack is this is that it was a while. It was a wild experience.
The way people close to you react to it. Like he,
like I had failed or I ruined my life, you know? Uh,
and then, and then, you know, when you're cold,
that phone don't ring that often. Right. And then I,
and then I had over a decade of, of sitting in that choice,
but I didn't languish. And just that experience,
I started doing standup for,
for much better reasons than making it and still enjoyed it.
I started seeing the places where I was performing. Normally,
when you're like successful in comedy, you know,
you'd get off the plane or the bus, you hit the, you do the hit,
you go back to the hotel, you get back on the bus.
You don't really see anything. You don't really like, even now,
like this last run we did here in Austin and what was here for weeks.
And I got to see Austin, I got to find restaurants. I like,
I met people that I probably called cause I'm in town, stuff like that.
And it was like that all over the world, not just the country,
I started going around and just seeing the world,
I got overwhelmed with this idea that none of my information was firsthand.
I just read it in books or I heard it from friends and I,
and I was eager to just, just see something for myself.
And I kind of entrenched this philosophy that my memories
are some of the most valuable things that I have. These firsthand experiences.
Can't take that away from. If I F I reminisce on a nice day, then you know,
it feeds you remembering something is neurologically almost identical.
I've read to experience it. Any, any information is valuable.
I call it the expensive knowledge, right?
It's like your buddy, that's a war veteran or something.
You don't want to know the. He knows.
If you knew what he had to do to know these things,
that's what they call expensive knowledge.
I would not recommend quitting your show the way I did, if you can avoid.
Yeah. But you, but it was the way he did. It was so cool.
Cause you know, you kind of drifted off.
I promise. I wasn't trying to be cool. It was,
it was a series of troubleshooting. It just like, it, man. Like we,
ain't gonna do, you gotta, you gotta, whatever you go through, you gotta,
you gotta live. You gotta make a way and find your happiness. And,
and you know, I'm lucky I'm in this, I'm in, I'm in show business, which is
a pretty, uh, it's a multi-dimensional career path.
This thing could go a lot of ways. Yeah.
Especially today. Oh.
My God. Yeah. Yeah. And another time when I've ever gotten that money,
I don't think.
No, because there have been no social media, no pressure.
Right? No dropping specials on the gram. No, no comm section,
no move on.org. You know.
And if you had gone to say like, uh,
the tonight show and made a pitch like that,
they probably wouldn't even aired it.
Now. Of course not. I had a great with someone that owned a sixth of the media.
Yeah. Well, I'm going to tell the media on them.
Right. They would, they would definitely edit that part out and be like,
why is Dave section only four minutes long.
Edited, spin it, whatever, whatever it is they do. But yeah. But,
uh, again, you know, all parties involved,
I thought in repairing that situation and I don't want going all into
what those conversations were like other than to say,
and this is not like I'm just happy because they pay me. It was class act.
It was like, that's beautiful. It really was. It was it wasn't.
It was a very encouraging. That.
Is very encouraging.
I think that coming up behind us,
these kids are going to be playing in a whole new ball game that we did.
Catch new episodes of the Joe Rogan experience for free only on Spotify,
watch back catalog J R E videos on Spotify,
including clips easily seamlessly switch between video
and audio experience on Spotify.
You can listen to the JRE in the background while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data costs. All for free.
Spotify is absolutely free.
You don't have to have a premium account to watch new JRE episodes.
You just need to search for the JRE on your Spotify app.
Go to Spotify now to get this full episode of the Joe Rogan expense.